something strange happens in a small
village in Poland local women sound the
alarm
the mayor wants to reward someone who
delivers what's been missing experts try
to solve the inexplicable mystery that's
gripped the place relax nothing criminal
going on there just a little demographic
puzzle but I'll get to that in a bit
it all began a while ago with a regional
contest for little firefighters many
peewee teams competed but one of them
stood out not only were those kids good
at their jobs but they were also only
girls not exactly shocking just wait for
it Lisa o transkei is an old cozy
village in the south of Poland a little
over 300 people live there now many of
them have daughters sometimes even two
per family just like in the rest of the
world you'd say except for one thing not
a single boy has been born there in
nearly a decade at least there's no
issue with baby girls twelve of them
came into the world in nine years
impressive for such a small settlement
right and they sure do rule in their
village like I said they're especially
interested in firefighting since 2013
the girls have been learning to help
their neighbors with this difficult task
in fact the children were the ones who
insisted on the creation of a Youth Fire
Brigade Youth being a broad term because
its youngest member is just 2 years old
during practice they have fire drills
just like their fellow grown-ups they
put out the flames not real ones of
course and they assist the injured and
they never forget to put on their
uniform first when there's a competition
coming up they train even harder than
usual at least every other day after
school and not for nothing the girls
teams been bringing metals from the main
national contest for the past six years
seems like the women in me ASA or Askia
have mastered many spheres which have
been considered a man's
job for a long time they drive tractors
to harvest corn and wheat they run the
affairs as the head of the village is
Christina's Ed's yak and don't forget
the fire department right now it has 24
women and only 8 men but so what you
might ask what's wrong with the village
having more women than men if everyone's
happy
well the thing is that like a bunch of
other Polish villages and tiny towns
it's steadily losing its population
there are nearly 900 inhabitants less
now than a half a century ago many
people move to big cities not to mention
those who emigrated from other European
countries each family that still lives
in the village today has at least one
relative residing abroad and even so me
a cieaned raske remains chiefly an
agricultural community a big part of its
territory is covered by crop fields and
farms that take a lot of time and energy
to manage taking into account the
steadily shrinking and aging population
it's not hard to understand why the
locals are concerned right the shortage
of boys suddenly seems to be just the
icing on the cake but not all the
members of the community are upset about
this whole situation
little girls themselves seem to actually
like it and it certainly doesn't stop
them from pursuing their hobbies or
enjoying themselves to give you an idea
ten year old mal weena kick ler says
that without noisy boys they can finally
have some peace and quiet
you can always meet them somewhere else
what can I say kids will be kids some
people claim that they wanted to have a
son in their families but now they
believe that it naturally can't happen
in this village Tomas goulash head of
the Junior Fire Brigade and dad of two
daughters himself says that women just
don't give birth to boys here but surely
there must be something the future
parents can do to increase their chances
of having a boy well after the case went
viral doctors from all over Poland
shared their advice they recommended
that women trying to conceive eat more
food rich in calcium and if that doesn't
help then there's
old tip from the Polish Highlanders the
couple just needs to keep an axe
under their bed or at least so they say
not sure that really works but I guess
it's worth a shot you may wonder what
would happen when a baby boy that
everyone's hope for for so long finally
comes freshman Frisco the mayor of the
municipality to which the village
belongs revealed that there's been so
much pressure concerning this matter
that for a while he seriously thought
about naming a street after the lucky
newborn probably a little over the top
don't you think anyway
he promised that the kid's parents will
receive a present and maybe they'll even
plant a tree in his honor in any case
this boy would be so welcome he'd
definitely get special treatment
it'd sure be an exceptional member on
the firefighting team the interesting
thing is that the residents who've lived
in the village for a long time aren't so
surprised about the situation they say
that while girls were born they're
regularly giving birth to a boy was
pretty rare even decades ago what could
cause this extraordinary anomaly maybe
the place has a unique microclimate is
there some genetic link that all mothers
in this area share or maybe it was
something more mysterious unfortunately
there's no way to answer that now but
don't give up yet professor Rafael pasca
from the Medical University of Warsaw
had already explained that to solve this
puzzle experts need not only analyze the
historical data but also look into the
couples who only have girls if there are
any connections between them it could
prove useful for the study another
important factor is the environment to
complete the picture they'll need to
talk to both children and parents living
in the village that seems like a lot of
work but many scientists have expressed
their desire to get to the truth I'm
sure they're already conducting
interviews with the villagers and going
through statistics and as far as other
parts of the country are concerned
surprisingly newborns are more likely to
be boys in other words it's about 1.06
boys for every
born in Poland in fact this is the case
for almost every corner of the earth of
course there are exceptions for instance
in some Asian regions like in India or
China the gap is even bigger because
sons there are somehow more desire than
daughters but in most countries
approximately 105 male children for
every 100 females come into the world
and that's how demographics have worked
for several centuries from this point of
view by a squadron ski is a rare
phenomenon all the more interesting to
know it's real reason or maybe it's just
a curious coincidence so what do you
think share your views down in the
comments hey if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but don't go
looking for little baby boys just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out just click on this left or
right video and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]